Exploit Modules
Now that we are acquainted with basic
MSF usage and several auxiliary modules,
let’s dig deeper into the business
end of the metasploit framework:
Exploit modules most
commonly contain exploit code
for vulnerable applications
and services.
Metasploit contains over 1,700 exploits
and each was meticulously developed
and tested to successfully exploit
a wide variety of vulnerable services.
These exploits are invoked in much
the same way as auxiliary modules.
To begin our exploration
of exploit modules,
we will focus on a service that we’ve
abused time and again: SyncBreeze.
In this section, we will search for the
exploits related to the SyncBreeze
Enterprise application installed
on the Windows 10 workstation
and then exploit it using MSF.
To begin, we will use
the “search” command:
The output reveals two
specific exploit modules.
We will focus on version 10.0.28 and
request info about that particular module.
According to the module description and
the available targets, this does, in fact,
seem to be the exploit that matches
our target on the Windows 10 lab machine.
Exploit modules require
a payload specification.
If we don’t set this, the module
will select a default payload.
The default payload may not be
what we want or expect,
so it’s always better to set
our options explicitly
to maintain tight control
of the exploitation process.
To retrieve a listing of all payloads
that are compatible with the
currently selected exploit module,
we run “show payloads”
For example, we can specify a
standard Windows reverse TCP shell payload
with “set payload” followed
by the payload name.
The “Exploit target” section below
the payload settings
lists OS or software versions
vulnerable to this exploit.
In the case of a vanilla stack overflow
like the one found in Syncbreeze,
these settings essentially equate
to different return addresses
that are suitable for different OS versions
or environments of the affected software.
In this case, a single static return
address for our version of SyncBreeze
will work for multiple
versions of Windows.
In other exploits, we will often
need to run “set target”
to match the environment
we are exploiting.
By introducing the reverse shell
payload into our exploit,
we added some new “Payload options”,
including LHOST for the listen host
and LPORT for the listen port.
These correspond to the
host IP address and
port that the reverse
shell will connect to.
Note that LPORT is set to a default value
of 4444, which is fine for our purposes.
Let’s go ahead and set LHOST
to define our listening host.
Our RHOSTS value is still set globally,
so after setting LHOST to our Kali
IP address, we can use “check”
to verify whether or not the target
host and application are vulnerable.
Note that this check will only
work if the target
application exposes
some sort of banner
or other identifiable data.
With confirmation that the
target is vulnerable,
all that remains now is to run the
exploit using the “exploit” command.
Notice that when we execute
the exploit, Metasploit automatically
creates a payload listener,
eliminating the need for Netcat.
Upon execution completion,
a session is created
and the reverse shell is
made available for us.